so you guys may or may know that some of
you in this group there's a large group
you may remember this there was a
scandal about the exploitation of
monkeys for farming coconuts something
yeah so okay can we do that you know we
can't just resign ourselves to you comes
treating muggy this way but on the other
hand I mean again basically all forms of
food farming and all forms of grain so I
mean you know even unquestionable do we
have some obligation should we set aside
some research and development money to
find out is there a better way to farm
wheat that's gonna reduce some of these
impacts on you know I just say I think
it does open the door to a discourse I
don't think anyone on earth is having
right now um you know to much to my
knowledge and I've always I've always
found mastery so this is having it okay
solve the world I think there is
actually a way to we could stop like
death by crop I mean we could greenhouse
all of our crops so that there is no
pests coming in eat yeah I think I'm
moving in that kind of direction is
totally good thing to do we do want to
put money into that stuff for sure and
we want to look at what which uses of
money are going to have the best you
know reduction of harm and we should put
money into those things um but yeah the
kind of the kind of core thing I was
getting at there is just I don't think
eyes'll and I are disagreeing here but
there's a way that you could look at a
position like mine and look at a
deontological position like Francie owns
and superficially think that there's a
similarity there and there is a
similarity but they're not they're not
actually the same thing there's a
difference between me and somebody who's
gonna say okay well no matter how how
much we crank up the suffering there is
nothing that could possibly justify
harming an animal for a given purpose
like battery for example Franchione
would oppose animal testing no matter
what the situation is now I oppose the
vast majority I oppose pretty much
everything I've ever heard of us doing
because it's it's and we have
really bad out-of-date ethical standards
but there are hypothetical situations
where I would say the negative that
comes from this is so sufficient that
human testing is justified so of course
there's situations where I'd bite the
bullet on the animal that is the
difference between a position like mine
and a deontological position like France
eons
because ISIL cuz it was just it was just
your use of the term rights in the way
you were talking I don't think you
intended it but it was just coming off
as if I might hold that kind of
absolutist black and white position and
I'm just making here that I don't I'm
aware that you don't although you know I
haven't heard you speak on these issues
this directly before you know but you
know I assume likewise you know I guess
it's sort of come up in passing in some
of your videos you know I I didn't I
didn't attribute francy on his position
you I think is interesting to note that
in the level of rhetoric ultimately
Francey on his position becomes
paralyzing to him that it literally
makes him impossible it makes it
impossible him to explain himself that
he paints himself into a corner and
becomes you know he it's it's impossible
for him to deal with the implications of
his own position it's that self
contradictory so when he can completely
control the discourse he's kind of okay
when he's asked a very simple question
with this becomes unsustainable and you
know whereas I think your position in my
position actually are workable so yeah
that's it's interesting it may be a
subtle difference but it's obviously
according for ya no no it's I mean with
a subtle difference between my position
and yours and francium you mean sure but
yours and mine are fundamentally the
same in that in a lot of the specific
examples used were grain farming and oh
yeah yeah
and even vivisection ya know things but
one thing that destroyed my financial
position on YouTube and I don't regret
it was that I came out with my position
honestly on vivisection which you know
who actually in terms of using yours
that vivisection is tragic but it's not
something I can oppose absolutely in
this sense you know and there was huge
okra real hatred against me from other
vegans that I was Pro vivisection now
you can watch my videos and see exactly
what I said I think it's ridiculous to
say I'm Pro vivisection but I'm willing
to recognize you know the nature of the
problem here is not the same as the
problem with for example leather shoes
that I would contrast it to I'd say well
look you you're you vegans vegans
criticizing me are saying I should have
zero tolerance for scientific research
but you don't even have a zero tolerance
towards people wearing leather shoes you
know in leather shoes had no
specification so
interesting kind of discourse and spun
out of it but I was I was really
intensely hated for maybe like six
months then well I I would I'd say this
um I don't I don't know a lot about the
practical reality of vivisection and why
we're doing it it sounds like something
that would be extraordinarily hard to
justify and you know if some time you
and I can get into vivisection but the
kind of point that I would make just it
sort of echoes your point I agree that
when you take a deontological stance for
anyone who doesn't know what that word
means the ontology is when you're
holding to a position a principle a rule
in all situations and no matter how much
you change the outcomes of that
situation you'll hold to the rule it's
like saying okay my rule is punching is
wrong I hold that deontological II even
if my not punching someone will cause a
Holocaust well it's wrong to punch
someone so there's real problems with
deontology so just to echo what what
eyes'll said I do think that for
Franchione there are problem areas that
result from his deontological position
and in terms of persuading people he
basically just has to hope the
conversation doesn't really go there for
someone like me the worst thing that you
can possibly have is a problem area for
me I could I could literally define a
problem area as an area where I also
feel gray about the human ethics and I
can't name the trait so the worst case
is you push me to something where I say
well you know I'm genuinely not sure if
that's justified for animals I can't
name the trade either so I'm genuinely
not sure how I feel about doing that to
certain humans so that's that's a far
less like that like crazy sounding place
to get pushed to then then this full
commitment to never harming no matter
what the situation is I think I think so
just to be really clear to sum up I
think there are ethical gray areas that
would be crazy to say that ethics has
solved all the problems and it's a
completed science it's not but the point
is that there's consistency for me
always between my animal and human
positions you won't catch me saying it's
a gray area for animals it's not a gray
area for humans and I can't name the
trait that's a position you won't hear
me say ever right as to all of that I
agree with you may not have heard this
Isaac before Isaac became vegan there
was a catch phrase in veganism which
people used to
simplify conversations with Carnot's
which was any justification for eating
meat is basically the same as a
justification for cannibalism that if
you can justify cannibalism in the
circumstances you justify see this was
to kind of shut down when you were being
asked about what if you're on a desert
island or this kind of thing we'll look
if you if you would resort to
cannibalism hi the same token you could
resort anybody
it's actually kind of the same is the
same criterion turned inside out and
backwards in but I did I just I just
mentioned for your interest Isaac I did
speak to research scientists who were
vegan or trying to be vegan and who were
involved in vivisection involved in you
know torturing animals to death and so
on and they talked to me and they talked
to me about the ethical standards
involved and you know I said it would be
really worthwhile to have a conference
of people in those areas of biomedical
science and so on but you know the the
sort of standard propaganda line that
there's absolutely zero scientific value
and torturing animals to death you know
is not true and of course in all the
articles for example that vegan gains
uses on his channel you know these
things are very very often based on
experiments on on animals even
scientific sources I've quoted on my
channel when I dealt with you know for
example and I was dealing with brain
damage caused by marijuana or something
you know some of these are the
information comes from torturing animals
to death so you know it would be
convenient to say no there's never any
utility in this which of course also
doesn't make sense in terms of
experiments on human subjects we know
both F utility and then we have a
difficult set of decisions to make
coming out of that absolutely because we
can we can look at I mean
denying the utility and using an
assertion with no evidence a throwaway
assertion like there's no value in this
I mean that's that's obviously that's
not an argument that's [ __ ] no one
should ever do that but so when you
acknowledge that there is utility then
the question becomes does the utility
justify the action and I think that
making those kind of consequentialists
type calculations is hard enough in the
first place and even harder when you
have this anthropocentric bias that's
going to make you err on the side of
humans so again that's why that's why I
like to use a model based on consistency
I just like to look at okay with humans
there is
summary's where I don't have some kind
of bias and I'm not trying to preserve
some some crazy right or some like
this this is just my honest opinion
towards my own species there's certain
kind of research that would be justified
at least in certain hypotheticals and
there's certain research that obviously
isn't justified most people would say
that what the Nazis did some of those
human experiments are in fact all of
them h-how'd assume are ethically wrong
and should not be done so the question
just becomes in the animal context is
this a case where we can spell out some
kind of relevant factor that if true of
humans would make us say it's okay to do
this to humans or is it just an actual
inconsistency where we're just saying
this is okay for animals it's not okay
for humans and there's no logically
consistent basis for saying so right so
two points that one of course has just
cost in reality torturing rats to death
and torturing monkeys to death is is a
lot cheaper than getting human subjects
so that's why the question will almost
always be the be asked about animals
rather than people so I don't know if
you wanna respond to that but that's
that's course oh well yeah it's just
whatever factor you would plug in
whether it's like cost or like financial
cost or benefit of some type it's always
just okay well let's say that that is
now the animal cost is now the financial
cost for doing this to humans would it
be justified if the answer is no and
you're still saying it's okay for
animals it would be an inconsistent
position if once you map the financial
cost with the animal situation over to
the human situation you actually end up
saying yes it's ethical for humans than
it would be a consistent position right
anyway the United Kingdom has tried to
take this seriously tried to take having
a procedure whereby research facilities
actually guess now all of the European
Union does this they go through a
protocol where they first have to prove
that there isn't a non animal harming
alternative so they have to exhaust
alternative forms of research so you
want to do an experiment on a particular
chemical would it be possible to do it
in a petri dish instead of doing an
animal this sort of thing well yeah I
mean sorry no no that's that was the big
advance was of having a kind of legally
mandated procedure where scientists had
to prove that it really was necessary
there wasn't a non harmful alternative
but I think the other the other
interesting aspect is just that very
often the benefit of the research almost
by definition is unknown is that very
often of scientists who say
look I want to try this out so
hypothesis maybe this is gonna reveal a
useful chemical easeful treatment maybe
not here's the chemical I don't really
know what it does and I want to know
that's the part of the nature of
experimentation see yeah the the people
who are really Pro vivisection I think
that's gonna be there their argument
fundamentally is the importance of being
able to tinker with the unknown yeah I
mean I think that if tinkering with the
unknown though is the justification well
I mean you could tinker with humans and
you might be able to tinker with the
unknown so you know would that just
blanket justify anything most people
would probably say no so it just throws
you back into the trade trap but when
you talk about the bait the big advance
it's it's a kind of depressing fact but
that is the big advance but it is
definitely an advancement to have to at
least prove there's not a viable
alternative to the testing where you
don't have to with the sentient
being the floor is open
hmm okay well unless someone else wants
to say something there's actually some
different I was gonna ask guys a
little bit but yeah do you guys have any
any things you want to say or talk about
odds of one thing probably won't last
very long but I think a lot of vegans
maybe me included unless so the wrong
thing would actually probably bore them
to death at all and I'm not sure what I
wouldn't do to survive and a genuine
survival situation on a desert island
I'm not sure if there's a being like if
there was some being that visited earth
that was stuck with me on the desert
island encompassed enough well being of
an entire like galaxy of worth of
something okay I probably would die in a
favor so that thing could okay but yeah
would you kill me I wouldn't kill you
personally I'm not gonna kill you to
live nothing else yeah I would I just
wouldn't kill you I don't think it's
okay well no I'm just I'm just saying if
you wouldn't
then you're in a situation where okay
wait now you're saying it's not okay to
do this to humans so if it's okay to do
it to animals that's your in the trait
trap and you might find a trade maybe
you can justify don't know for me
personally I definitely don't think that
I could justify killing any mammal to
survive I I start becoming a little
weird around the fish zone definitely
around the bug zone I'm like okay at
that point you're almost talking about a
holocaust of sentience when you're
comparing killing a human to a bug but
but either way that that's that's a
vague question I don't think I'd bite
the bullet on killing a human or
anything remotely near a human and I'd
also just point out that it's where
someone stands on a desert island
situation or on vivisection all of these
things interesting questions but they
don't say anything about where you stand
on a basic situate yeah personally I
would and if we were on the island if we
were on the island and we were both
gonna die I mean I'm not gonna kill you
but I would maybe try to talk to you I'd
say okay well like someone needs to die
here like do we want one of us to
survive this we might be able to and
like how are we going to make that
decision but I would never impose my
role over well yeah I'm not sure I
couldn't make any promises in that
situation anyone like literally my
family or friends yeah you and not your
mother I would suggest that it's not
really an ethical thing to do to eat
your mother I wouldn't know but I know I
don't think any of those positions would
be an ethical thing to do but I think
ethics sort of go out the window once
you get to a certain point their ethics
either exist or they don't exist well
I'm the in a society kind of otherwise I
mean look I think ethics are arbitrary
and subjective and I'm a nihilist but if
you if you're going to set a standard
and you're gonna say you want to be I
think you've toughened up since we
talked like your your year and a half
ago because I mean I think part of what
you're embracing Isaac is the idea that
things like dignity
can be
more important than suffering you know
like yeah maybe you're gonna suffer a
little bit more me you're gonna drown
yourself like if you're actually on an
island you have the option of starving
to death or drowning yourself to die
more rapidly resign I think that people
have strawman to you a little bit on the
dignity thing because they kind of talk
about it like it's some you know
deontological value completely detached
from well-being and I think that dignity
probably if we get into what your
concept of dignity is and we really
start hashing it out right no and I'm
sure it has some level of connection to
well-being so I mean yeah but but either
way no I I mean from my position I I
don't think there's anything I've
actually changed on ethically since
getting on YouTube I mean ethics are
subjective and you just have a choice of
when it comes to ethics do I want to
have consistent standards or not if you
say it's okay to have inconsistent
standards your system can just buy
anything if you say I have to have
consistent standards then you can't
special plea a certain situation out of
the case so when we talk about a desert
island I'm almost done I'm almost done
when you get to a desert island you you
can say that I'm setting a standard here
where it's okay to kill other humans and
you can justify killing animals in a
survival situation from there
I personally don't set that standard but
what I have a problem with is anyone who
tries to be dishonest and say I set that
standard for humans I don't set it for
animals and I can't name the trade
that's my problem
so I just pointed out implicit though in
your position there could be two
versions of your position one of which
is the tough version and one of which is
the weak version or the tough version of
the wimpy version and many many people
state the wimpy version including say
anisia including several of the the
atheist leaders who have addressed on my
channel you know atheists and skeptics
so the the wimpy version being all that
is true
unless or until your own personal
suffering is called into question and
then it stops then suddenly because I
have to suffer none of this matters
anymore and don't they'll kill anyone
anything and as it's been alluded to and
I just point out it implicitly in
position you don't see it that way you
actually think that sometimes you've got
to suffer sometimes you got to fight
sometimes you got to die that you know
your own you know your own discomfort
elyse ism
Oh in here yeah I find that amazing they
were one of those guys I'm sorry it
wasn't it wasn't Sam Harris but one of
the other guys like him that I addressed
on my channel once I pointed out that he
thought it was too much suffering for
him to be vegan and he lived in one of
the suburbs of Los Angeles well that's
just no like you think I'm you know like
in the unitard this going to do
humanitarian work in Cambodia or
something is this too much suffering or
too much risk and I think you know it's
a little bit of sovereign risk but so
what you know if sign support you to it
anyway yeah well I got a pushback on
that I don't think that it's too much
suffering or something like that it's
it's just not what personally
preoccupies my mind but I'd never say
that it I would never I'd never resist
going to Cambodia by saying it's somehow
just too big a compromise to my
well-being or something sure it's it's
just a random example it is pointing out
when we put these notes keys into
practice there is a question of your own
skin your own neck
yes on the line and your own you know
tolerance for suffering and risk of
death and actual death you know like if
you're gonna join the army and fight a
war maybe you're gonna die maybe because
there's one thing I wanted to branch off
on earlier you made a sort of a long
statement about vivisection you
mentioned the the limited relevance of
utility so you know you said briefly
that you know utility only matters to a
limited extent because name the trait
will be the same another case because
that utility of torture and human versus
the utility of torturing and anime but I
just want to point out this issue of
utility does matter at least in a kind
of Socratic and provocative way because
I point this out to vegans and opponents
of meat-eaters once them also say well
there is now in 2018 absolutely no
utility in leather shoes we could force
everyone to wear the current line of you
know Nike sports shoes that are just as
functional or more functional than other
shoes you don't need to polish them to
the US Army no longer uses leather boots
they use non leather boots and so on so
leather shoes have zero utility and yet
this ethical question still is impressed
I don't even know a single vegan
restaurant that will refuse customers
for wearing leather shoes inside you
know why you know it isn't that is also
an interesting thing as where in some
cases within veganism we're in a
situation of zero utility for this
absolute
zero utility for the meat based object
or animal exploiting object and yes it
still seems to be so hard to press for
that's all yeah okay I mean there's so
many different things I could say there
like with leather I'm not I'm not strong
on this position because my legal
positions are a bit different what I'm
about to say but currently I think that
I would just be fine making leather
illegal frankly I don't know if there's
a good argument against that but I would
just be for completely banning it and
there is also just one little thing I
don't think there's confusion between me
and eyes'll on this but just in case
anyone else is not tracking when he's
talking about a strong and weak version
of my position the the weak version you
know where where you're fine with this
murder just so you can survive and the
strong version where you're more stoic
and you say no it's not ethical to kill
my mother to just kill my friends if I
want to live I think that's wrong um I
would just point out that name the trait
that the name name the trait is a
consistency test it is not necessarily
my position it's something you apply to
a position and either of those positions
could pass the name the trait test
yeah like it might be partially my fault
for how I've framed it because people
think name the trait is an argument for
veganism and it's not per se like
Hannibal Lecter's position passes name
the trait and people have a hard time
wrapping their head around it name the
trade is an argument for veganism
if you already have certain beliefs in
place like you believe in consistency
you believe in basic human rights in
most situations and then what was the
last thing you said there you're talking
about the value of utility basically and
you're just saying what
even when utility goes to zero right
yeah and and the the core point is that
when it goes to zero we should we should
ban it or that it's just psychologically
hard for people to give it up even when
it hits zero or what's the what's the
core thing there well I guess some just
point to the absurdity of it of course
it's much more difficult to deal with
something like you know finding a cure
for cancer by torturing animals because
there is there is utility but that at
the opposite extreme we actually do have
cases we deal with every day like
whether shoes where there is now zero
utility and yet it seems we you know we
can't make for our
rasaan that you know i mean you can be
asked the question do people think it's
a civil right to buy and wear leather
shoes what is the basis for leather
shoes you know knowing knowing what we
know scientifically ethically illogical
and otherwise but you know I just say
it's interesting that the problems for
the vegan argument are the same even
when there's zero utility so it's okay
weighed that last little bit I didn't
catch the Fae yes sorry go ahead you're
you're talking about leather and utility
and and just hashing that out no I mean
it just isn't mean it is more like a
thought experiment but it's something I
discussed with vegans and it's something
I discussed with you know with meat
eaters also there's no doubt that 500
years ago leather was a crucially
necessary part of human civilization
which is it's sad it's it's tragic etc
I'm not celebrating that fact but we
really had no substitute for it but
today the substitutes are superior to
leather and has absolutely zero utility
and yet we don't seem to have I mean you
know we don't have any progress or any
possibility of progress leather is
instead celebrated as a luxury and so
and so forth and what's interesting your
response to this is that you would even
support leather being made illegal but
you know certainly in terms of a baby
step or cultural step what have you you
know there is pressure to have no
smoking areas even where it's basically
irrational it's part of a culture of
trying to get rid of smoking you know ie
in areas will be perfectly safe it
wouldn't be a harm to other people to
allow smokers to smoke cigarettes but
still we're wanting to push for society
to make a gradual transition to having
less and less smoking and ideally zero
but there is no similar pressure to have
you know fewer and fewer leather shoes
you know there's there's nothing like
this not even within Buddhism anyway I
was thinking about that earlier because
you made an allusion to how these
questions are asked when when people
agree with certain fundamental moral
tenets well everyone who subscribes to
the Buddhist religion it's absurd but
you'd think there'd be a uniform or vast
majority opposition to other shoes and
nothing with the kind of this even in
that kind of context
until 'ti zero utility plus ethical
unanimity and still there's no pressure
for change so yeah I mean personally
this this is somewhere where generally I
would a lot like by the consequentialist
on this kind of
I think that if you can't argue that
there is any utility at all to something
and you wouldn't you you can't you can't
point to any utility and it just causes
needless harm especially needless harm
as as great as skinning of being alive I
mean that's just in the crazy zone of I
don't know how anyone could ever think
to justify that and then later oh yeah
and then with Buddhists I was just gonna
say short version I'm perpetually amazed
by how hypocritical the spiritual
community is on veganism it's crazy
agreed and agreed but you know I think
they'll the only counter-argument have
heard lately that would apply to leather
etc is Matt Dillahunty position which is
you know he freezes as libertarian that
the maximum Liberty pertains to a thing
haha so that somehow it's a civil right
or a human right that you can buy an own
leather that seems to be the the counter
you know that Liberty ought to encompass
all such things that you're deprived of
Liberty don't a chopped up animal
reformed into the shape of a Nike shoe
yeah you know I I understand that and I
understand what you're saying but I
think that there is a way to get
underneath that because obviously to me
or you or vegan the problem with what he
is saying there is that he's not
considering the liberty of the animals
he's only considering the liberty of the
humans and once you weigh the liberty of
the animals into the picture well now
suddenly it doesn't seem like you should
have the Liberty to wear the leather
just like with humans you can't say it's
my liberty to kill you it's like no well
there's there's also the liberty of
other humans to even live libertarians
it's you have as much liberty as you
want without harming someone else oh you
can swing your fists as much as you want
until you hit someone in the face so to
get underneath that you have to look at
what is the philosophical basis for
bootstrapping Liberty as a value for
humans and can you find that basis
without applying it also to animals so
now that would be how I would try to get
under that so i actually rhetorically I
wouldn't do it that way because I don't
want to build an argument on the concept
of the liberty of cows or cow rights I
would approach it entirely in terms of
human responsibility human ecology human
ethics that would just be my approach
but we do actually agree completely on
the this is just a question of rhetoric
um but anyway so there was some other
topic you want to ask my book
I don't remember I think oh yes I do
remember um
oh yeah and just the well you and I are
gonna have to bat our frameworks off
each other at some point I don't know if
I'm feeling that today I don't know if
you are either but because the areas
where eyes'll and I are gonna have a
problem is when we start talking about
something cuz our systems will point to
the same answers in I bet like 90
something percent of cases I would
assume
but there's situations where you've got
something that's within the wildlife
line that eyes'll draws and you're still
saying that it it you're saying it
wouldn't have any degree of Rights like
if a you know some animal wanders in you
can just like kind of do whatever to it
I mean that would be where I would start
saying well well no I mean I think we
should remove it but I don't think that
it just loses all its its moral values I
don't know if that's a straw man so we
can get into that in depth but the other
thing I was gonna talk about was the DXE
stuff actually so unless you have
something else to say about what I just
said I can go to that cool well I think
a very brief response then we can can
move on to DXE so you know I have many
many videos on this and there's a whole
playlist on what I call the wildlife
management approach so if you guys go to
my channel and click on playlists you'll
see there's a lot of stuff organized I
have over 900 videos on YouTube so most
of my positions on most things than
veganism are set down in video form but
you know my approach to ethics is based
on the concept of doing the best you can
so in terms of this question what
happens with animals that come into the
city
my position is contrast to dude for
example will Kim look it up so we'll
kill Luca is a proponent of a
rights-based approach that actually
animals living in the city including
rats and snakes have animal rights and
have the rights of citizens and he has
written long books and academic articles
describing this so to me that's that's
genuinely laughable and I think we have
to acknowledge that meat eaters kind of
laugh at that for a reason you know the
idea that rats have the right to live in
your house just as much as you you part
of the fact that it's not practicable I
also think just purely theoretically now
on the other hand my position doesn't
entail I mean I think it really there is
an obligation us to do the best we can
is it possible to trap the rats alive
get rid of them without killing them
sometimes sometimes as possible you know
I mean that's that's the okay okay well
in that case I don't know it seems like
we're just getting hung up on the word
rights then because for me I I use the
word rights really just because it's a
shorthand to make people think about
that that thing they have in their head
that idea that in most situations
generally speaking it's wrong to stab a
human but I'm not I'm not like wedded to
the concept of Rights really it's more
just about the treatment and the the
consistency between the treatment in
whatever situation it might be so yeah I
mean when you say when you say oh no I'm
sure his views crazy is an intersection
list but when when you talk about like a
squirrel wandering into the wildlife
line you don't actually hold the
position that it well I mean I don't
like the word right but you don't hold
the position that it loses all of its
value or I'm gonna say it's right to
being treated as best as we can treat it
while still getting it the out of
wherever we need to get it out of well I
think from from a legal perspective yes
I mean that that is what it boils down
to but you know I think we should still
do our best
so it's bears a good example is they're
big and heavy and you know in a
third-world country like Laos their
ability to cope with you know sedating a
large mammal and relocating it alive to
the wilderness is the government doesn't
have the budget for that even a country
Sri Lanka which is bankrupt the
government is really bankrupt they can't
do that now in Canada we have enough
money to do it to some extent this is
the reality we can relocate a certain
number of bears per year and we should
that's very morally good totally um but
you know if on a technical level of what
is the law and what are the rights you
know you could never say this about a
human like well we got to try to see
this humans life but if it cost too much
just shoot him in the head and it I
think you would do that in certain cases
if for example like there is a
psychopath and he's in some small
village and they don't you know it's
just a tiny little village they don't
have the means to subdue him in fact
doesn't have to be a little George will
shoot someone if they're on a rampage
yeah exactly so I'm actually not sure if
we're go
to find areas where we reach different
answers here we may be will but the
guess the confusion for me is when when
you talk about rights the way that I was
receiving it which is now seeming wrong
to me is that you actually mean once
once the animal crosses the wildlife
line into human space you can just do
whatever to it and that would that would
seem like wacky land to me if you're
actually gonna say that no matter where
the animal is it's always entitled to us
treating it reasonably then that's
actually going to line up very very
closely with my position well I I
wouldn't say that precisely because of
the example of farming the grain and so
on I mean I can't say to you that we
treat Gophers reasonably in farming
grain right so that's why I would argue
that there's not actually an
inconsistency in that situation I think
that if we had a choice I mean we've got
humans who for example let's say they
were reduced in size burrow underground
can't comprehend language or morality
well no I'm just being honest though
once once you actually map all those
traits I'm gonna be like well it I
mean there's nothing we can do if we
want to produce food we're gonna have to
kill those people and if I live in a
world where I might catch a virus that
turns me into one of these little gopher
monster things I would still support
living in that world as absurd and
hypothetical as you get there I would
still support living in that world and
saying it's okay for us to be doing
farming okay that's pretty close to
being a Reducto you know actually don't
don't think it is what would you think
that if you if you lived in one of the
in a world where you might become to go
for if we kind of its kind it's really
just the veil of ignorance right it's
like if you knew you might become to go
for would you still say that we
shouldn't do agriculture well that need
that's a very Buddhist position because
if you believe in reincarnation then you
literally are asking people that you
know if you if you could become the
Gopher but look I just point out I avoid
getting into that hypothetical just
because I accept it's like before when I
said I I appreciate that you said yes
it's tragic like it's tragical that we
have to kill these animals what we do so
you can acknowledge that it's bad that's
really all the only difference is that
I'm willing to acknowledge
look you know within like for example
with it to go and shoot a bear within
the wildlife preserve is a crime like
you know this should be punished as a
crime you shot this bear but if the bear
climbs through the window and goes into
your basement in your own home and you
shoot the bear it's not a crime
what if you don't torture the bear in
your basement see I do think that still
should be a crime you know the thing is
you you said that we have an obligation
to treat animals reasonably yeah that's
a bit vague but we can get into what I
mean no but again my point is I'm not
gonna say to you
killing Gophers on a farm it's
reasonable oh I would say so well you
see it's so again this is a different
thing where I'm saying look I'm
acknowledging this is sad or tragic or
bad Sam Sam yeah right but I'm framing
it in this different way and saying well
there's a special place for Gophers
which is the natural wildlife habitat
conservation area and then there's this
farm and we draw a line on the map and
it's arbitrary but on one side of the
line we kill the Gophers because we want
to eat wheat and on the other side we
don't so yeah that's that's my approach
yeah yeah I mean my my core point would
just be looking at whether it's
consistent right and I don't I think
that what people do is they picture
would you kill a human in a gopher field
or an arena in a field if they walked in
it's like no well well wait why wouldn't
you kill a human well I mean there's a
some pretty obvious reasons you can
communicate with the human and ask them
to move they're not burrowing or some
you can you can just push them out
of the way they're large and visible
they're not popping up into your combine
harvester or whatever so there's a ton
of there's a ton of these
characteristics that make it really
unreasonable to do this to a human but I
think if you're honest with yourself and
you you go okay well if we map those
characteristics over to an animal are we
suddenly going to say this is so
unreasonable personally I would not I
don't think so yeah well I I don't like
to construct arguments in terms of
necessity because I don't think the
necessity is real you know we talk more
about consistency I think my argument
also it's so it's both embracing that
these things are not necessary I
like hypothetical we could all eat rice
and nobody weep but it's also embracing
that the line on the map is an
inconsistency that the fact that the
bearer has different rights inside the
conservation area outside that I'm
saying that is an inconsistency it's
arbitrary and it's okay so that's you
know it's recognizing that isn't
inconsistent I I'm no I'm not really
seeing the inconsistency I think that
it's reasonable for us to say that we
don't want a bear in our town and I
think if you look at a human and you go
okay there's a psychopath wandering
around in here okay I'll give you
actually very close to the head and just
to just add to add a tiny little
dimension also if the psychopath breaks
in your house sure kill him but no
torturing him would also be a problem so
great with all of these I'm always
looking at is it consistent okay well I
think this is the real comparison to
humans let's say you have quite a large
special home for the insane which has a
garden they can walk around in so it is
a little bit more like a nature
conservation area and inside this you
know inside this special area they can't
hurt other people or can't interrupt
their daily business or what have you
there are some safeguards but if they
wander outside of it they'll be captured
and drugged and put back inside it sure
and this is not that while leaky
hypothetical as you can imagine this is
not that so if they're inside the asylum
they have certain kinds of liberties and
rights and what have you know if they're
outside they will in effect be hunted
that's kind of what we're saying but
again it's a pretty good analogy your
position approach my position I don't
think there's yeah and the whole thing
is unless you're actually going to find
some area where I apply a consistency
test to your position and it's not
consistent then I don't know that your
position is out of line with my position
yeah this is talking to you no I know
it's not shocking to me it's just you
you seem to be talking as if there's
something fundamentally inconsistent
about what we're doing to the gopher I
might be misinterpreting you there but I
actually don't oh okay all right so
right that's that's judgment put I guess
you know my point is
no we ought not to kill the gopher I
mean let's I'm just acknowledging that
in terms of what's what's morally right
we ought to you know we ought to value
that go for his life more than a handful
of grain but we don't and I'm willing to
bet that is tragic you know it's just
kind of a moral an aesthetic evaluation
of it sure yeah I I don't I don't even I
don't I don't like the reduction in to a
handful of grain or a soy latte or
whatever it is that someone wants to say
right because the thing is you have to
look at the standard you're setting once
once you're saying it's okay to kill
animals in non-essential situations
which you have to say to get
civilization off the ground we're saying
essential situations only we're going
back to an agrarian society where read
are regressing to the Dark Ages or
something so most people would say the
the trade-off there for well-being is
just you're going so far downhill that
we can't set a necessity only standards
so but the thing is once you're gonna
say okay well I'm gonna set some
standard other than necessity then you
have a very hard time arguing against
something like the grain farming and
again for me the core point the core
point is just would would I accept this
being done to myself if I were put in
that situation and to me if I look at
something like being stabbed to death
completely needlessly to be made into a
hamburger no that's ridiculous
but if you're talking about a farming
that's that's for our civilization be
talking about industrial activity and
you're talking about a can't avoid
getting in the way and there's not
really another way to deal with them
actually not all of them well at that
point I'm just gonna say yes right you
know I sympathize with your position but
do you disagree is my question or II III
only disagree in that it seems to me
your position is much more complex than
mine now you brought in a lot of a lot
of complicating factors and someone
because this isn't how I feel about it
but something a mediator might say to
you a mediator might say to you well
you're using the same justification so
you can eat bread that a mediator uses
so he can eat bacon the meat eater
really feels that it's justified that
it's that it's reasonable to kill this
pig so we can enjoy eating a certain
number of pounds of meat
and you think it's okay to kill so many
thousand Gophers to produce so many
kilograms of weed you know this this is
the reality altum Utley there's a
mathematical formula here for the number
of large you know animals with brain day
that they have a brain and two eyes and
two hands and two feet and the gopher is
really are you know they're highly
intelligent you know mammals and so on
it's not as exotic guys have Skype
against act or something so you know I
think your your position because of its
complexity opens itself that line of
questioning and you can answer it and
that's that's fine but I think mine is
mine is simpler so Occam's razor I think
I have a little bit of an advantage
thing I don't really know about that
because the thing is I could understand
how someone could misinterpret it and
ask questions like that but for me I
mean first of all I'm talking about
consistency so consistency I would apply
that to your position my position
whatever and we'd still ask the same
kind of questions to see if your
position is consistent if you were one
of these beings who if you ran a risk
with a like rauzein veil of ignorance of
becoming one of the beings outside of
the line would you still draw the line
that's effectively asking the same thing
and then with right one sec one sec let
me come back and the the thing is when
you're saying oh if you bite the bullet
on one you have to bite the bullet on
the other that's like the the thing a
carnist might put to you I would point
out well no there's a real categorical
difference there in terms of why the
killing is happening I would bite the
bullet on one and not the other and I
think you would - are you gonna say
you'd bite the bullet on being killed
for the hamburger I sure don't think so
but you orbit
been shot because you're saying of why
one is done I think it tension matters
sure but but just the point being that
they're not equivalent you can't say you
accept it for this context therefore you
have to accept it for this contest so I
do I do think my position is a bit
stronger than yours they're they're very
similar what I do I do think my mode of
argumentation for it is stronger than
yours because it avoids these things
what is my position if I am the gofer I
think I have a right to stand up as the
gofer and say this is an injustice why
am I being punished persecuted hunted
and killed for having crossed a line I
didn't know was there that I didn't
understand I'm living by the laws of my
own tribe so to speak and here you are
punishing me for breaking a human law
human concept that nobody explained to
me there was no sign or fence that I
could understand her
you know and so I left you know I left
the conservation area and maybe there is
no conservation area even but whatever
there is no adjacent conservation area
I'm trying to survive in this field and
I'm being you know persecuted and
murdered in these horrible ways and not
only that you humans take no
responsibility you do this year after
year after year with no end in sight you
do it infinitely you have yeah plan they
ever address this injustice you do it
again oh I don't know III think we
should find a plan and and minimize
deaths from all of our industrial
activity but yeah so that would actually
be the point where I would say your
position is not consistent and mine is
and that means even if mine takes a
minute longer to explain which doesn't
have to but that it would actually be a
superior position because it comports
with logic alright so if you're saying
that you would not bite the bullet on
becoming the gopher in the on the other
side of the line with a rauzein veil of
ignorance your position actually
contains an inconsistency mine doesn't
okay so I think I think not because my
position is that it's tragic whether I'm
on the human side or the the Gopher side
so the question okay then let me put it
to you precisely that you don't know if
you'll become a human or a gopher would
you draw the line sir but is the
question what the question is you don't
know if you're going to become a human
or a gopher you're currently just a
spirit floating in space you will
randomly be chosen to be one or the
other would you draw the line do you
think the line is generally justified
and fair that's what this is getting at
so would you draw the line if you don't
know if you're gonna be a human or a
gopher no I think from the Gophers
perspective it's it's terrible and
unfair in traffic whoa wait but you're
going just you're going just to the
Gophers perspective so I'm asking for a
universal right though I agree from so I
think it's bad both right so yeah and I
would just I would take a different
angle and I mean I might maybe I can
persuade you to because I think it's
still in line with your position and can
make total sense
I would just encourage saying yes of
course I'd bite the bullet on
the line I mean if I don't know if I'm
going to become a human or
gofer I'm still gonna say the line is
justified because of a broader picture
of the nature of what we're doing and
what the benefit is and just that it's
part of the function and progress of
civilization so if you tell me I've got
a Rolls iandale I don't know which I'm
gonna come out on the other side of the
Gopher the human do I think it's
ethically reasonable to draw the line
I'm going to say yes to that no if you
say no then you're actually saying I
would you're you're arguing for an
inconsistent ethical framework if you
would say no and then you'd go ahead and
draw the line well right but my that was
my initial point I said and just sorry
sorry just a final final little thing I
just I just want to point out that it
doesn't mean that your position is
necessarily inconsistent so you can
still take this whole wildlife
management approach and say yeah I mean
if I have the Rawls in vail I am gonna
bite the bullet sure I mean I think it's
reasonable that we draw the line so it's
just if you don't say that though then
you have inconsistency right but are you
point of view I've said several times
this is the inconsistency that I embrace
in my system that the line itself is
arbitrary and it's a so the problem at
the start said what I think it is
inconsistent that for example the bear
is treated one way on one side line and
not on the other and it doesn't make any
kind of choice it's not consciously you
know choosing it's not being punished
for a crime it's it's committed so I'm
saying I do think this is a it's kind of
a moral flaw in my system but it's not
one I'm concealing it's when I'm putting
out front and saying look I think this
is something we have to commit to and if
we commit to it it's gonna lead us down
a path of taking seriously a set of
moral responsibilities that will
meliorate the situation okay there's so
much I could say it there okay so first
of all I totally agree with you that we
should do whatever we can to ameliorate
the situation
no debate there a hundred percent let's
use our resources as best as we can to
ameliorate as many animal lives as
possible totally agree
then I want to make two other points one
is if you allow in an inconsistency your
ethical system collapses it's kind of
like the principle of explosion and
logic once you say it's okay to be
inconsistent about ethics you can
justify any ethical position and then
final point sure um I just want to try
to tip your intuitions a bit because I
think that if we talk about a bit you
will actually eventually want to say
yeah I'd bite the bullet on on that
if we talk about Psychopaths for a
second your inner allsey and veil you
don't know if you're gonna become a
human or a psychopath would you still
draw the mental asylum line for the
psychopath
you're right you you're I think you'd
say yes and I think that you're trying
to be very kind to animals and think
clearly and see the case of the gopher
and you could do that with the
psychopath - but broader picture the
line is justified so I would encourage
biting the bullet fully consistent
though the counter-argument have is very
simple so thus I stated in full because
it's incredibly simple I don't believe
that in any consistency of this kind
causes my moral system to collapse
precisely because it's based on the
understanding of a plurality of moral
systems that I'm talking about two
separate moral systems now again that
may be evil but I believe that is
possible we have to recognize that you
could say okay here's one more of an
ethical system that exists in the ocean
and here's one that exists on hand or
even a system of physics we say okay
there's a there's the hydrodynamics the
way physics work in the water and then
we have a separate set of dynamics for
how physics works on air in the land now
you know we do the math differently we
do different kinds of calculations
hydrodynamics are very complex math to
do um so you know in that sense you know
I know your point when you say as soon
as you admit an inconsistency and I've
seen you I remember seeing you debate
this with some neo-nazi type people you
say look really yes you can't just say
this is where did you see that on
YouTube you're talking to you talking to
someone who was advocating for the ethno
state okay um look if you're gonna if
you're gonna accept this kind of
inconsistency then you'll accept any
inconsistency
I understand your point in that but the
point is I don't think this is true that
you're saying it's a type of flaw that
caused an ethical system collapse when
you say look here's one set of rules
within a nature conservation area which
may include for example nobody is the
right to cut down a tree whereas
obviously on your private property you
do other right to cut the country or on
a farm or what-have-you
it's gonna so we're I'm just drawing
attention to the fact that I actually
have a different set of you know
prescriptive rules a different kind of
set of ethical standards on one side of
the line first
the other so therefore I don't think
it's a collapse it is about plural
ethical systems yeah so you have also
different rules for a human if they're
in one country or another right they're
in a certain area or another it's it's
still I would say one system right if
you want to go to the physics analogy
it's still all comports broadly with the
laws of physics so I would consider the
separation into two systems actually I
think that it's one system it just does
data limits I criticize myself in that
nobody else pointed that out first I
pointed out that my system would be like
having First Nations reservations and
saying okay native people have a
different set of rights over there than
they have over here which is what Canada
did and what many countries I don't have
a problem with your system per se it's
more like your position on your own
system because I would accept yourself
well that's you saying I partially
accept my own system all right yeah no
no I accept my system I just view one
element of it as tragic so well no
because you're saying you'd actually
reject the system as yeah you're saying
like you're saying if I was in a Rolls
Ian van L and I had to I didn't know
what position I'm gonna end up in I
wouldn't bite the bullet on creating my
own system I mean I would and I think
you would too if we talk about
Psychopaths versus human they said of
just going okay when you put it that way
would I accept the creation of my system
yes no then sorry you've changed your
phrasing slightly before you just said
would you agree with drawing the line or
something okay in the way yes no you're
correct so then I guess then I would say
it's consistent from a rights discourse
perspective you could say well you
believe in having one set of animal
rights in the city and another set of
animal rights you know and the nature
was revision for the same Bayers I'm not
saying that's not in right well from
some from a lay person's perspective it
is a type of inconsistency right and
someone who's not really literate but me
and you aren't gonna say that's
inconsiderate but I mean the same way I
think someone can attack my system by
saying well would you believe in one set
of human rights if you're standing over
here another set of Rights if you're
standing over there and that's the
reality we all live with I don't have
the same human rights when I'm in
England or in Saudi Arabia
I do when I'm in Canada that is that is
the reality of the world in 2018
yep yeah I mean and I wouldn't want to
have the Saudi Arabian rites that that
totally violates magical system I'm not
down for it but I am down for the fact
that there's different rights they are
permitted based on your behavior or your
location even within one ethical system
yes so if you if you wander onto
someone's property you're trespassing
your rights are slightly different in
that situation I mean they're not
they're still in line with the overall
ethical system but someone is allowed to
defend themselves because now you pose a
threat and they don't know what the
you're doing okay anyway so we agree on
everything except kind of matters of
rhetoric and aesthetics then and you
know sorry I know it's a minor of
changing in your phrasing when you put
it that way I said in the rest okay yes
then even as they go for I do agree with
it yeah because I'm using the term would
you drop a lot this is kind of an
ethical system you make your changeably
rules right right that's kind of thing
okay from this perspective kind of
standing outside the system I'm gonna
say that I don't actually see how your
system is inconsistent I think that
there is any inconsistency within anyone
like like actual philosophically
necessity not just different no I know
it is high praise from you to say that
there's no inconsistency and I accept
the compliment
I was usually on the level of aesthetics
and rhetoric though one of the
differences is if you think of this
argument taking place on a stage your
stage has a lot of furniture on and my
in is very spare and clean and empty
like you brought onto the stage the
concept of the progress of civilization
and things like this and I don't do that
now that doesn't mean you're wrong or
bad it really doesn't I'm just noting
look when I said before well my approach
is simpler that is kind of what I mean
that you quite readily bring in these
these complicating factors which I which
I don't I really try to keep it very
very simple I'm no well well that's just
cuz I was laying it out in detail for
you but if you just ask me quickly I
mean if you say was the example we use
gophers for for grain farming I mean I
would just say basic answer to that is
that there are traits that justify the
difference of treatment in that city
and I would bite the bullet if the
traits were present so it doesn't have
to be big it can be I can say it in
about nine words right no but I just
pointed like progress of civilization as
a source of necessity you know this gets
to no those are the problems like you
may feel the progress of civilization
requires taking lunatics and locking
them up but somebody else doesn't you
may feel the progress of civilization
justifies grain farming even if it kills
a thousand Gophers a month and something
else that so I just say I really
fastidiously try to avoid bringing those
cut those kinds of things onto the onto
the stage well yeah I mean the the core
thing that I'm looking at is just if you
is is there some kind of difference
between humans and animals that if true
of humans would justify doing this to
humans and I would say yes well yeah I
mean I would actually consider or the
fact that it becomes that funny actually
a point for how obvious the truth of
what I'm saying is I mean of course it's
like that's not the situation with
humans obviously well starts looking
like a completely different ethical
world that's what it does but I think
actually it's interesting because if I
stick with that so the miniature humans
eating the grain I think we would take
it much more seriously that we had a
responsibility to have nature
conservation areas for those miniature
humans okay that was the other point I
want to hit which is I totally agree
with you on that also which is we want
to do as much as we possibly can to
improve the rights for the beings that
are affected by our industrial processes
or whatever else we're doing on the
ditch or the treatment or whatever
they're just there well yeah I'm not
throwing off for the use of the word you
and I do but of course it's remarkable
that that nobody else does and others no
well okay remarkably few people give a
damn you know I I did a book review on a
book written by a scientist although
it's not a science book which is called
a half earth I can put the I can put the
link into the thing but anyway I just
I'll say why I'm sharing this link now
whatever this is a book review of a book
that made the argument that 50% of the
Earth's surface should be given over to
habitat conservation areas thus
title so there I believe that's in the
right it's in that hat oh no it's in the
hashtag debate crucible Oh monster in
the wrong discussion area I'm on I'm
outside and on my phone so I can there's
other people it's for other people this
thing's fine so I'm just gonna post that
that link there but to me that was a
that was a really interesting you know
question to be asked I mean you know I
think the book sucks it's a very
negative book review but you know when
you say what we have a responsibility to
do this almost nobody is interested in
asking that question I mean you know
well no obviously I don't think it can
possibly be 50 percent of Canada's
landmass that's reserved for well
animals but what's gonna be five percent
15 percent twenty five look what you
know what is it gonna be I think those
are really interesting questions you
know ethically pragmatically and
otherwise yep and and here's here's
another thing when you go to is
civilization justified I would actually
suggest like most people are not willing
to abandon civilization when you're
talking about eradicating some
particular thing we're doing and it's
gonna bring us back to the dark ages or
to some like agrarian society that
actually I don't see how that's not just
completely persuasive on my point we
wouldn't bite the bullet on that there's
a serious trade-off here for well being
right if we set a standard if we set a
standard that would make grain farming
illegal I mean that what would happen to
the world be it be crazily III agree
with you completely I think the irony is
that the last generation of vegan
leaders people like for NC own a who's
still alive but fairly old garden right
but they're they're not on the same page
with us at all you know they're new and
I mean were very different people we've
come to this conclusion from a totally
different logical and philosophical set
of premises and we've both come to that
exact conclusion as you just stated it
you can't possibly have a moral standard
that makes grain farming untenable okay
with you you you can no one wants it I
don't want you well you know we're not
and it's just not gonna way right but
that that wasn't that wasn't obvious at
all - Gary Francis Aaron and his
generation of activist so you know
that's that's interesting and I
significally they say that that that on
that what what's his position there does
he think
it's just this is just different we
shouldn't do all for these animals
was that his position no he really
breaks that connections because he can't
he can't accept it and he ultimately
just goes back to an ethics of intention
that you know ultimately you have to
have good intentions because it's it's
Tim it's not acceptable to even kill one
rat or to kill one groundhog he can't
his moral system doesn't abide that so
yeah you know I sympathize but it's
insane his position is ultimately
driving him crazy and drives others
crazy well yeah and the ethics of
intention thing I think in I think will
align here actually I think intention is
ethically relevant but not the only
thing that matters because if you just
go to intention well now it's like what
anything is justified just because of
your intention yeah look I mean you know
my honest opinion is that the ethics of
intention arguments are always always
kind of pathetic I mean you know well
you got drunk but you say you didn't
intend to get drunk you know let me give
you let me give you a really black and
white one um you and I our kitchen
scenario one I stab you to death
scenario two I turn around with a knife
and poke you Batson and you die
I mean a huge huge difference and the
difference is just in tension right
you're right yeah but but again I can
point to other situations where you know
the intention is constant but some other
thing creates the problem so you can
tell intention also is not the only
thing that matters but in this case
they're I mean you're right into talking
about intention globally and include
don't consensual sex and rape the
different business oh yeah of course the
difference be murder and manslaughter
etc but in the specific locus for this
discussion was the idea that killing
animals is okay because you didn't mean
to kill them you just meant to farm
grain even though you know that farming
grain absolutely requires you to kill
them your that's for this discussion
it's like well if you want to talk about
intention of this kind of context it
seems to me pathetic
oh yeah that's my basic feeling okay did
you want to send about Dixie yeah I
could keep talking about this the other
I would just say it's a summing up
on that that I'm not actually seeing
areas where we
diverge because if you ask me
technically like I am also drawing and
pose a line around civilisation and
saying we're gonna treat animals
differently when they wander in here and
I'm still in all situations saying we
should do the best we can for them and
we don't seem to actually diverge on
treatment anywhere so far so I think or
or the fact that we should improve the
field animal live so I'm not seeing any
actual ethical difference in our
position there well maybe a subtle
difference is just the question of how
you root the meaning sir pardon me how
you root animal rights or whatever
substitutable what what is the
homeostatic norm that you how is it that
you think animals ought to be treated my
answer the wildlife no you say it's
based on their situation in a wildlife
reserve
so I'm saying that's the norm I want the
jury to and the other thing is maybe
there's a priority or how you well yeah
I mean I I would just say that gets too
meta ethics and underlying you give
animals the rights we give them and you
might find this kind of weird but I I
just avoid that I literally don't go
into that because people have already
bootstrapped certain rights for humans I
mean I don't I don't avoid it I've
talked meta ethics for hours and hours
in here you sure usually vegans not
Karnas but um the the point that I go to
is I just look at our human rights model
and I look for consistency and you can
argue to veganism right there and then
you're just reduced arguing about
weird gray cases okay so I don't
even need to deal with why we're
bootstrapping well let's go to dmz
unless you want to find a word on that
well no III think though that is an
interesting sort of difference because
then you know you're basically saying
you argue through a parallelism with
human rights and I think that would
might you couldn't ever get you to
trouble when people say well they're for
this dog you know this castrated dog
that's lived its whole life as a human
plaything this domesticated animal has
certain rights or even the rats in the
basement and so on you know I don't
argue that way for me the norm is not to
look at you do the best get dogs to look
at thee but it's the law but I zhilie
you you do still give like quote unquote
we're using rights you loosely yeah I do
still quote unquote
them the right for example not to be
tortured the rat that wanders into your
house yes you're right yeah no yeah
either way I'm not I'm not seeing I'm
seeing a disagreement well I'm seeing
I'm seeing a difference of
two positions that are incredibly
similar kind of proceed well you know
I've never heard you I just mentioned in
terms of a difference maybe in practice
though I've never heard you arguing
about the importance of wildlife habitat
preservation areas and that kind of
thing no maybe it's just never come up
which is not what you're debating with
people but if that's yeah I'm not
talking about that when we're when
we have someone sitting across from me
who's talking about stabbing an animal
for a hamburger we can go to talking
about the wildlife and and reasonable
hard ethical questions when we when I
know I'm at least talking to someone who
can solve basic ethical questions well I
just mentioned though in terms of
because again you may not know how
different you are from other vegans in
this you may not be aware there's a huge
school of thought and veganism that
wants to reduce suffering of animals in
the wilderness and you know that's
that's yeah we've argued about this bro
this is where the real Python meme comes
from so there you go so maybe that's
where our positions really become become
different then because you know I think
it is you know that basically that's the
norm I depart from however much
suffering bears and you're in the wild
that's okay that's normal that's what
those ethical system is based on it's
not based on the idea that that Bears
should be provided with painkillers and
a cushion to put on their head as they
lie dying you know in the forest so you
know no no maybe we agree practically
that any proposed solution to this like
dumping tofu packets into the Amazon
like whatever you want to talk about
it's it's like just full-on like
full-blown [ __ ] but if you go to
like a technical philosophical abstract
situation you and I do diverge here and
we diverge massively and I actually will
II am NOT on board before you say we did
find the difference but this is one that
we've known about cuz we argued this
before for awhile but the basic
difference here is if we go to a
situation where you haven't wand and you
can wave the wand and nature keeps
functioning the exact same way on every
single level at
the subjective experience of being
killed and and eaten to death just
disappears from nature I would wave that
wand and eyes'll wouldn't so that that's
our difference there so we think there's
value and meaning to the suffering or
something if I believe in nothing but I
would I would put it this way so for you
the ultimate value here is reducing
suffering no it's a value No
oh okay but for me the value is the
wilderness itself is the wildlife
management paradigm as I put it though
just managing well like that is value
enough where the discourse stops and I'm
not going to inquire further I mentioned
you mod vegans seriously talking about
preventing bears from committing rape
against other bears yeah and preventing
bears from committing from engaging in
cannibalism
against other bears in the in the
wilderness you know I mean I think I
think that's a bizarre question if you
have pet bears in your home that's where
these things get really ridiculous but
you're talking about bears living in the
forest that engage in rape and
cannibalism you want a police the
morality of bears this is that's crazy
yeah with my so with my view that's
consistence but Isaac I could say to you
either you're being inconsistent if you
can prevent a bear being raped or dying
in cannibalism from your position
consistently if you wouldn't do it for a
human if you happen to be walking down
the street you see a human is gonna be
raped or cannibalized you'd intervene if
you're walking to the forest and you see
a bear do need a pair name that trait
why wouldn't you intervene Isaac so you
yeah well I think I think that the whole
thing there is you're talking about the
function of the ecosystem right so for
example if we're talking about like just
predators what what would happen if we
stop the Predators from praying right so
the I just want to point out here as
well
there's there's a level of principle and
a level of practice to this so we
completely aligned to a thousand percent
that the practical solutions like send
out anti-rape bear squads into the wilt
like that's that's all just crazy zone
but the real difference is in the
philosophical abstract of you can have
everything function just as well
you can remove the just barbaric shitty
suffering of nature would you do it or
not it seems that you say no and I say
yes could I just interject here I think
there is an a like a ongoing discussion
about gene drives and sort of using them
to prevent suffering in the wild so it
is sort of a discussion that's going on
within some philosophical communities oh
yeah the affective activists do
so-called research about reducing wild
animal suffering those scenes and stuff
well so what I can tell you though is
that when there are you know practical
ways to stop these things then yeah I'm
all for doing it like if I saw two
animals of the same species it's not I
know that they have an abundant food
source or whatever and it's like let's
say it's cats or something and one's
killing the other out in the street I
would probably yet just stop that cat
fight but when you go to a a broader
like okay do we want to try to stop wild
animal predation or something it's like
well the the reason I say no to that is
because there is no practical way to do
that if there actually were and we can
just hypothetically go there we just say
we have the the philosophy wand and you
can do it at that point I'd say yes
so I don't know you can spell out more
on that if you but I think that that
kind of I think we both agree that in
the domain of bears bears are allowed to
live by the law of the bear and not by
human laws or human concepts you've
grated a a very abstract situation in
which you could modify the wilderness
itself I think both you and I agree in
the real world there is no way to modify
the wilderness you know not in this
sense we're talking about here we can't
modify the nature of nature nor do we
really want to you know I don't think we
want to design the forest or something
to to minimize the amount of bear
cannibalism
for example Goods you could do you could
tranquilize bears and separate them or
something you could try to come with
some crazy scheme or not well yeah my
problem with that more stems from things
like is that the best use of resources
is that actually practically gonna
function or is it just some [ __ ]
human idea that's going to have some
[ __ ]
ecological consequence we aren't seeing
but if there's real-world practical
solutions that are actually attainable
and don't cost some massive amount of
money or have some huge problem with
them then I do say yes to those okay
even though it's in the wilderness even
though it's in the wilderness but again
I don't I don't want me to some weird
like like the anti you rape their
squads
I think you've clarified the difference
between us though because the the one of
the things the difference this is the
difference is that I don't want to apply
human values okay the Wilden I just I
just don't which is okay you know I just
don't want to see a eyes little video
come up where any anything is being
talked about along the lines of crazy
wildlife management strategies and I'm
being set definition of wilderness well
I think we're actually getting ready to
move off of this and talk about DXE I
mean well he's just talking like
everything I am I am telling the real
life wilderness so it's wilderness as it
actually exists in Yosemite National
Park in the National Park in the real
world today it's not anything exotic
okay so does anyone have any any idle
questions there or do we want to move
along for either of us I was gonna ask
like wouldn't you say maybe it would be
something like a thousand two thousand
three thousand years laugh when you want
to maybe consider something like
actually trying to go in that direction
of reducing eyes directed you
potentially who's that directed you I I
guess both of you guys I mean I guess I
wouldn't do it at all you'd say yes
morality sort of if it's not suffering
then what is it that motivates him to to
treat animals well and be vegan etc yeah
okay so the two reasonable questions but
you know Imran first I think that the
answer the first question is almost
implicit in the meaning of the word
conservation which is just I'm not
trying to conserve nature in order to
pervert it into something other than
nature I don't want to turn the forest
into Disneyland like if Disneyland is a
place where no animals are harmed
that's that's Disneyland that's not the
forest that's not with the National Park
is forest illustrative things um the
question from Scythian actually got to
see the person's name while they were
speaking you know I have a separate
playlist on my channel which is about
nihilism lawsuit analysis and historical
nihilism but you know the so you can
watch those videos and I do I think
entertaining exactly those questions but
the the short answer is that you know my
ethic is based on idea of doing the best
you can and you know as simple as that
may be I really do not see how doing the
best you can is compatible with you know
eating bacon or drinking cow milk is a
very basic awareness yeah let me push
back on that doing the best you can
let's say that the best you can actually
includes you have the philosophy one
sorry I don't you have the philosophy
one or so so the philosophy one that can
just roll nature but nature still goes
on working as perfectly so so now the
best you can concludes the ability to do
that right so I think I can push back on
that by using the same terms I just used
which is you know like if you if you rob
the venom of its sting so to speak
aren't you aren't you destroying nature
and a very real sense aren't you turning
nature into Disneyland you know nature
shouldn't be the golf course you know
well the way that I'm saying that is is
it has no impact at all on the function
of the ecosystem on evolution on
anything it still all continues
functioning perfectly
just you maybe there's even certain
types of suffering that we say we leave
for some reason because they're valuable
in the same sense that the suffering of
working out is is valuable or something
but we're talking about just just the
feeling of like we've ended up here
before because I think this is a problem
with personally I think it's a problem
with your position although I like your
position overall but it goes back to
just the feeling of being eaten by a
Python it's we're back to real pythons
though part two I I just would say yes
like no one should have to ensure that
let's just remove that feeling if that
we both agree it doesn't fall within
what you can reasonably do so we're not
doing that but if it were I would want
that 100% so I think I think my position
becomes in effect the concert the
conservation of nature includes the
conservation of suffering
that's based on you can quote but that's
basically the no that's fine that if
you're going to take the the suffering
out of nature you're changing nature
you're perverting nature and this is you
know as I say let's not rob the wasp of
its sting let's not rob the snake of its
venom you know know if this is you know
worth conserving then it's worth
conserving so is making something better
pretty but yeah I regard I regard the
suffering is one more color of pain in
the palette sure serving nature is your
axiom rather than well-being yes I think
that is actually a reasonable thing to
say about me I normally don't speak in
terms of axioms at all but yes that I'm
putting this kind of axiomatic value on
the concept of Wildlife thus I describe
my position of veganism as well.if major
paradigm sure but you're Niall is so why
do you value nature so much in its
current form right well sorry we did a
long conversation I was and thought a
week ago because you could turn into a
bear form I don't see why you I want to
pipe in there for a sec just because cuz
I am also a nihilist but I always draw
well I always who's laughing right now
okay I couldn't even tell who that was
but ya know I'm also Annihilus but I
draw a very important distinction
between two senses of the word nihilism
there is a term that refers to the
ontology like meta ethics the nature of
morality do you think that there is an
external source for morality or is it
fundamentally meaningless in that sense
sherman nihilist but when it comes to so
that could you call that descriptive
nihilism an accurate description of
reality is to say that it is a
nihilistic but then when we talk about
prescriptive ethics the kind of world
that I want to build I do not want to
build a world based on the notion that
nothing matters so I am a descriptive
nihilist I'm not a prescriptive nihilist
right that's me but if I guess so if you
didn't have if you weren't a do if you
are prescriptive or sorry if you are a
descriptive nihilist then you would
think that that way nature is described
currently is irrelevant and we
make it better so I think I am full view
of descriptive the source no no no whoa
whoa whoa no you're not aisel you you
believe in in creating in treating
beings in certain ways and having an
ethical system to give an example in
China people believe in communism
I want them instead to believe in
nothing I don't want instead to be
nihilists so that's prescriptive
nihilism whoa wait wait one second but a
true true full-on prescriptive nihilism
like if you interacted with like a krill
tarde
who's there this other server out there
you'd be like I am NOT that full-on
prescriptive nihilism is I don't have I
don't want to assign I don't want any
system of rights for even for humans I
don't want anything to do with treatment
it's just we we can just do whatever the
we want nothing matters at all and
you you do want to create an ethical
system your wildlife management thing
that is an ethical system you're talking
sure I think though that would the
position you're describing I've never
heard of this before the Kuril tardes I
think that's really based on a
misunderstanding of what nihilism is
because nihilism is fundamentally a
criticism of belief humne describes the
position there there is nothing to be
believed in so atheism is merely not
believing in a God but nihilism also
includes not believing and communism or
even not believing in 40 anism
other people for whom they're you know
Sigmund Freud's theories became
virtually religion so you know this is a
rejection of belief but prescriptively
do I think others or in theory everyone
should you belief I do so therefore I
think properly understood and defined I
am a prescriptive nihilist I yeah well
way I think prescriptive and descriptive
nihilism and let someone else is already
there I don't think those are even like
accepted terms in philosophy it's just a
short offhand distinction that I've made
because people think when I say I'm a
nihilist or I don't believe in objective
morality I think that it's subjective
that what follows from my position is I
don't think that we should have a human
conversation about how to create a
better world and and I really try to
separate those things and I stay a
descriptive not
is someone who says reality is devoid of
meaning a prescriptive nihilist is
someone who goes on to say and therefore
we shouldn't create an ethical system
okay I totally understand why you're
using that your hand I'm I'm just
responding to it so it's so not not by I
understand you're probably referring to
a formal some kind of definition that's
generally accepted flaw like totally but
the way I'm putting it right there you
wouldn't align with free man you've
you've done us the favor of pointing out
that this is a philosophical distinction
of your own creation I think most of the
philosophical distinctions I talked
about with nihilism or of my own
creation because you know there are a
few you know published nihilists like
Max Turner and so on but know this stuff
um does explain I don't think as well
Richard or Oh understood in English or
or any other language so yeah no I mean
what I've just said to you even about
clarifying the nihilism is really about
belief sadly I don't think that is
widely understood at all though I notice
when I talk to other people who identify
as nihilists they right away get quite
excited to hear and they say wow you're
stating something more clearly that I
haven't heard stated that way before the
you know contrasting I was Davis but no
but that that stuff is my own my own
material well I mean the whole the whole
reason I went there is just because
someone was trying to get you on the
uran nihilist why do you believe in
building a better world and I was like
just kind of coming in with well people
when they say they're Annihilus they
don't necessarily mean that they don't
want to create an ethical system they
just mean that's that's not what I was
saying I was saying because he is a
descriptive nihilist why does he have
value on the original state of nature
instead of trying to prescribe his own
value eventually if he could magic wand
it but I don't understand that that
question quite quite briefly and easily
so nihilism
means I don't believe in things I don't
believe in philosophies or religions or
what-have-you but it doesn't mean that I
can't acknowledge the difference between
a rock crystal and a pebble now I don't
believe the rock crystal has magical
value or in a sense any cultural value
but you know there's there's a
difference here it's not about denying
reality yeah well rock crystal is
different from a pebble a jungle
is different from a desert so it's
completely absurd it's equally absurd to
say to a nihilist
well you're a nihilist therefore you can
smash up all these diamonds and crystals
because you see them as having no value
or to say to a nihilist well you're a
nihilist therefore it doesn't matter to
you if we cut down the forest and allow
it to be replaced with the desert
desertification destroys the general
place of the desert well of course
there's a difference you know I I just
don't believe that there were gods or
spirits or even abstract philosophies or
principles like communism involved but
it is actually it this goes all the way
back to sexism therapists in ancient
Greece and Rome sexist in Paris is an
underrated philosopher otherwise and
classical skepticism people used to say
that to the sceptics to like oh well
you're a skeptic therefore you don't
care if you get hit by a wagon you know
no that's that's not what it means it
doesn't mean I you know I'm insensate
I'm oblivious to the difference between
a rock and a crystal or forest in a
desert doesn't fall well apparently you
want it to stay a forest you don't want
it or you don't want it to be changed in
any regard which I don't see why you
would not want to make it better for the
animals if you had radical magical
perfect here's the answer the question
because I don't believe in your concept
of better I regard that as a religious
concept so you ask great guys you said
why don't you want to make the forest
better I'm a nihilist what you've just
alluded to is better which maybe you see
this how you were opening of humans and
animals so I don't see why you wouldn't
want there to be more of that and you
could still maintain the forest in
theory I mean if you have the
philosophical magic one you can still
maintain something that resembles what
you care about as a forest I have
nothing further to say on that but no
just say I have answer your question you
know I appreciate your anyone else on
this kind of topic or you guys good
because we can move on to some other
stuff I was just gonna hear what you
want to say to me over THC and wrap it
up because my girl yeah there's no my
girlfriend's gonna report you to the
ocean
totally yeah well with DXE I mean I
think there's been a lot of stuff in the
air lately I don't know
it's been in the air for longer than
it's been on my radar but I mean people
are I watched your video actually the
other day on this and I've talked to
individuals and organizers for some of
the other animal
I guess organizations that I think are a
bit more credible and there seems to be
some general complaints about a lack of
transparency with respect to fundraising
I have also heard complaints about
basically cult-like behavior so yeah I
don't know how true all this is but
apparently having people separate from
their families if they continue eating
meat creating this compound housing
where everyone is living and then
there's some there's some other things
like how effective their activism is I
mean I personally with look with
activism my whole thing is I understand
there's huge character variation I'm
often on the end of the stick of oh
this guy's such an [ __ ] like he is so
bad for veganism despite the fact I've
turned hundreds and hundreds of people
vegan but so I try to be pretty except
who's going off right now who's who's
got all that noise can you mute whoever
that is yeah so I've got a lot of
acceptance for different activism styles
but I also recognize that there is such
a thing as ineffective activism I mean I
am sure that that exists and I
personally at this point and persuaded
that dxc doing like the the cry about a
sheep and scream their story at a
restaurant full of people who hate you
is in that category
so yeah just any of that if you
want to comment on it and oh one final
thing is I'm going to host a debate once
I can find someone who will take the pro
DXE side which you're right I have had a
lot of trouble finding someone who'll do
that I can't I want to maybe put out a
call and see if I can get an organizer
for DXE or someone to actually come and
defend the organization live and then I
can get a critic like you or someone
else to come do the other side and I'll
mod it so yeah just any of that if you
have anything to say yeah you know my
father did not say many wise things to
me perhaps none at all but I remember he
once said to me we were in a
in our Museum and he said you know sort
of the common run of people that always
ask the one question to make their own
statement when they say that's not art
like that's not a you know that's not a
painting they dislike something they say
that's not art see how the question is
whether or not it's good art whether on
it's great art the fact that it's
hanging in a gallery you know means that
it's art nothing like this is just
ridiculous
and you know I'm gonna likewise a large
part of what we're talking about as
activism is an art form you know it's
not a science you know of course I've
been involved in political science
quote-unquote political science but you
know exactly the kind of examples you're
talking about running on a baseball
field trying to interrupt a baseball
game interrupting a lecture from Bernie
Sanders screaming in a Chipotle you know
the various kinds of antics they engage
in then indeed you can even question
this about you know the types of videos
they make about rescuing animals the
cute animals in the farm you know
clearly I mean we can talk about this as
art you know sorry I don't actually mean
we would use the term art but my point
is you know yes you can talk about it
being effective or ineffective but I
mean ultimately there are questions like
is this in good taste or is this in bad
taste is this you know you know you know
is this good or bad activism I think is
in large part a kind of aesthetic
question you know more than it is one
that we can quantify and come to those
conclusions
sorry that's a depressing answer no no
it's fine dad it's bad in that sense you
know okay sorry it's just I'm just
walking outside yeah and so do you think
they are a cult two things one no and
two you know it's it kind of is a very
easy way to criticize something to
reduce it to being a cult I was tempted
to make a video recently but a group
called landmark who are often referred
to as a cult and I decided not to but
you know it really lets you dismiss
something very rapidly to say it's a
cult you know doesn't
whereas it's it's much more difficult to
get into why is this bad or just why is
this stupid you know I think the
discourse would be a lot easier if we
could just say yeah it's a cult you know
and again I agree this I would never
accept it as a throwaway statement I was
assuming if you took the yes position on
that you'd make a case for it but you
don't take the S position so basically I
basically think it's look when people
tell me it's a cult based on their own
experiences I'm sympathetic I understand
why they're saying that but I think in
terms of a strict definition of the word
cult you know no it's it's not a goal
you know you can call something insane
mean or crazy or manipulative it
dominates people's lives I mean you know
you can say bad things about something
but you know I mean people say being a
fan of that man as a cult or something
you know being a Star Trek fan as a cult
you know in a very loose sense you know
sure but no III don't think in a
meaningful sense it can be called a cult
all right well if DXE commits mass
suicide I am gonna hold you to that
statement
yeah and then and then the other was the
other I can encourage you I think it's a
nice idea you can put up a video trying
to invite someone who's who's an
organizer you know when you can specify
if you want them to be DXE global or
something because they have this weird
terminology for the hierarchy within the
organization I believe DXE global is the
the elite group of who's who's in charge
you know you know I mean if some
lower-level guy comes on and defends and
gets spanked then if if higher level
people start trying to say oh that's not
really us then the response that it's
gonna be okay come do a better job okay
no but I think that's a very good yeah
yeah here you know I think it's a
morally positive thing to do to try to
invite someone to come out and discuss
these things I'd also say you know a lot
of the criticism the injury is
unreasonable a lot of ex-members a lot
of it's about the sex drives of people
within DXE which you know is not I've
got set
teen videos criticising them and that's
not what they were about you know it's
this very very strange thing yeah well
none I think that's come also from like
intersectional types largely and they of
course are gonna always triumphal if I
like that
well like some of its real but I mean
like look you know people tried to do
this to me they tried the painting as a
bad guy because the circumstances of my
divorce with my ex-wife and it's like
you know of course they also what they
said about this or relize was well the
situations like even if what you're
saying is true who cares like if I had a
terrible divorce of ex-wife how does
that impact my position on dog
castration we'll try to organize a
protest movement or the future of
veganism it just you know doesn't matter
so there is a lot of noise about that
kind of stuff which I'm not I'm not
really concerned about but I think again
you or anyone here you can look at the
playlist the videos on my channel there
are a lot of substantive concerns about
txt kind of in principle and in practice
and yeah I do have to say that that I
felt was a very good video so I do
actually encourage people to go and
watch that and I would just say like
look there's I try to be very upfront
about any areas of knowledge where I
don't know and I don't really know
about a lot of areas of so one of
those is the kind of structure and
function of our organizations I don't
really know much about it but with DXE
in particular it's hit a point where
I've heard so much complaining from so
many different people some of whom I
consider pretty credible and not all of
whom I would even put a name on that I
personally am wondering if they are
actually just a bad thing for veganism
and I kind of want to see someone defend
the other side because I've gotten a bit
pushed onto that side at this point so
it's not so I know but whole lot about
that's why I'd like to just we'll have
to bait and it'd be clear for everyone
so I sure on the playlist the early
videos are the ones that like I think
the top two videos they really show the
footage of them doing their thing of
them actually getting arrested and
dragged off by cops I mean it's
interesting cuz I agree with you you
stated its kind of opening caveat you're
really leery about dismissing people as
bad for veganism you're aware people
have said that about you
bury your bad very you know and you
should be yes so I'm really on the same
page with that I think it's a very lazy
it ultimately self-righteous
it's okay this is bad for because it
should lazy Swayze and just saying all
the time unnatural vegan relies on that
if it doesn't agree with her sentiments
it's bad for veganism but so and she
also concluded my channel was bad for
veganism so we'll see Swayze we'll see
ten years from now who's accomplished
what in this moment he puts a but no and
and likewise I agree with you this yet
though kind of broad heuristic approach
to seeing what works and what doesn't in
terms of activism and public outreach
and education I think those are
questions we have to ask and sorry to
butt in one thing you have to have some
level of patience for troubleshooting
people yeah we don't have it all worked
out people will do stupid you have
to look at what are their intentions
because intentions are all that matter
ever in any size okay but you do have to
look at their intentions and go okay is
this a kind of like a one-off [ __ ] on
their way to developing a good tactic or
is this characteristic of them right you
know but look one way I don't know if
you know the group two six nine life
I don't but two six nine life their
distinctive thing is is branding
themselves with it with a cattle iron
you know so they take a steaming hot
piece of metal and while protesting they
sear the number 269 into their flesh
which you know is not only a spectacle
but then their members are marked for
life with this it's not a tattoo you
know it's burned into their skin you
know now as Extreme as that is I mean if
that's not extreme what is I'm not going
to jump to the conclusion that they're
doing more harm than good or that
they're bad for veganism I mean you know
I would not like but I don't want to do
it and I don't want my daughter to do it
if my daughter certainly five years old
if my daughter grows up and she says hey
I'm gonna joint you 69 and get this
brand it into my skin you know I'm
against it so do you say my tolerance is
is pretty wide but in terms of my role
as a critic in the movement yes for many
years I've been staying uni vocally DXE
is bad and it's only getting worse and
I've been right so yeah the other
question you say about troubleshooting
or trial and error which I win with
troubleshooting you cannot chalk this up
to troubleshooting anymore
but it's also true so I gotta go it's
very tight
after this but you know it's also really
said that they used to be committed to
this ethic of transparency and receiving
all criticism they said they were
founded on social science principles
again I've talked about this in videos
and that like the social sciences that
we're going to take on criticism and
adapts and all this stuff and today none
of that is true I mean it's true by
contrast they really have more cult-like
behavior anything that's wrong it's
covered up and denied and you're
denounced as an enemy of the movement if
you dare to mention something wrong and
so on you know so I just say their
original founding principles were
supposed to embrace this kind of self
criticism and adaptation that was
supposedly socials they're their USP
their unique selling point was that they
were going to take social science
principles and apply them to the vegan
activism as never before
and thus by their own criteria by their
own standards they have failed they've
moved the goalposts I think that's
really when those and the other
goalposts they said of themselves was to
be a fully horizontal fully transparent
leaderless movement and of course you
know it's the opposite extreme they are
instead again I see why people call it a
cult they're this special hierarchical
community in you know this one town in
California in Berkeley and it is all
these hero-worshipping leader
worshipping features and so on you know
so yeah I mean it's it's uh whether or
not they were bad in principle when they
when they started kind of on day one
there are really instructive example we
can all learn about about how things go
horribly wrong soon after somebody's
talk about someone just full confidence
like they're just they're just an
example in failure I mean this is this
is one of the things that I find funny
about I feel like I'll just tell you
deadpan I'm Liev that unnatural vegan is
literally mentally [ __ ] that was one
of the hardest I've laughed in a long
time you're always a lot figure when I'm
around but maybe when I'm not around you
don't know I do I do laugh quite a lot
but some things make me laugh
particularly hard and and just genuine
deadpan belief delivering that it was
very funny anyway man if you got to go
then go
it sounds like with the exe stuff it
seems like you know a lot about the
history of the movement and the
structure of the organization and some
of the people in it so I mean you'd be
the right kind of person to take the con
side so if I do find someone you don't
have to commit to y'all know who it will
be but I'll show you who that person is
and possibly you would debate so - sure
I'm willing to commit in broad brush
jokes it's just the usual caveats well
unless I'm busy you're you know
physically can't no sure I mean unless I
must have some reason why I can't at the
particular time sure it'd be be happy to
look at you
yeah cool it's good I got some info on
side well alrighty people